â¢ The purpose of the Crimes and Other Legislation Amendment (Omnibus No. 1) Bill 2026 (the Bill) is to amend crimes-related legislation to update and clarify the intended operation of key provisions (Explanatory Memorandum, p. 5). â¢ Key measures in the Bill include: - the extension of the sunset date for network activity warrants, data disruption warrants, account takeover warrants, and related emergency authorisations by 3 years (Schedule 1, Part 3) - the introduction of evidentiary certificates as prima facie evidence in proceedings for serious drug offences and the repeal of the purity-based method for determining drug threshold quantities and the enactment of the mixture-weight approach (Schedule 2, Parts 1 and 2) - the introduction of the explicit power for police officers to enter premises and use reasonable force when executing an extradition arrest warrant (Schedule 4, Part 2). â¢ The Bill was referred to the Senate Legal and Constitutional Affairs Committee for inquiry and report by 1 May 2026. The Committee’s report recommended the Bill be passed, with additional comments made by Coalition senators. â¢ The Senate Scrutiny of Bills Committee raised concerns with the Bill, relating to the deferral of sunsetting of account takeover, data disruption and network activity warrants and the introduction of evidentiary certificates as prima facie evidence in proceedings for serious drug offences . â¢ The Law Council of Australia and National Legal Aid have raised concerns with a number of elements of the Bill, including the proposed evidentiary certificate framework and the changes to the method for determining drug threshold quantities. Bills Digest | 6 May 2026 Crimes and Other Legislation Amendment (Omnibus No. 1) Bill 2026 Parliamentary Library Bills Digest No. 53, 2025-26 Crimes and Other Legislation Amendment (Omnibus No. 1) Bill 2026 Parliamentary Library | Bills Digest No. 53, 2025-26 2

---

â¢ The Combatting Illicit Tobacco Bill 2026 (the Bill) will expand law enforcement powers to investigate illicit tobacco related offending and increase the penalties and consequences for persons involved in illicit tobacco offending. â¢ Key measures in the Bill include: - increasing criminal penalties for the importation, possession, buying, selling, supply, production or manufacture of illicit tobacco (Schedule 1) - enabling the use of telecommunications access powers under the Telecommunications (Interception and Access) Act 1979 in relation to illicit tobacco related offences ( Schedule 2) - amendments to the regime established under the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002, including expanding the grounds for making a non-publication order (Schedule 3, Part 1), expanding the search warrant powers (Schedule 3, Part 2), expanding the availability of examination orders (Schedule 3, Part 3), expanding the grounds for information disclosures (Schedule 3, Part 4), amending the equitable sharing arrangements to include jurisdictions party to the Intergovernmental Agreement on the National Cooperative Scheme on Unexplained Wealth (Schedule 3, Part 5), removing the requirement to make preliminary unexplained wealth orders (Schedule 3, Part 6) and allowing for the postal or electronic service of documents (Schedule 3, Part 7) â¢ The Senate Standing Committee for the Scrutiny of Bills and the Parliamentary Joint Committee on Human Rights have raised concerns with the Bill, including in relation to significant increases in penalties , privacy impacts and the expansion of search warrant powers. â¢ At the time of writing, the Bill had not been referred to a parliamentary committee for inquiry. Bills Digest | 8 May 2026 Combatting Illicit Tobacco Bill 2026 Parliamentary Library Bills Digest No. 60, 2025-26 Combatting Illicit Tobacco Bill 2026 Parliamentary Library | Bills Digest No. 60, 2025-26 2