EXPLANATORY STATEMENT
Issued by the Assistant Minister for Citizenship, Customs and Multicultural Affairs
Customs Act 1901
Customs Amendment (International Airport Definition) Regulations 2026
Legislative authority
The Customs Act 1901 (the Customs Act) concerns customs-related functions and is the legislative authority that sets out the customs requirements for the importation, and exportation, of goods to and from Australia.
Subsection 270(1) of the Customs Act, provides, in part, that the Governor-General may make regulations, not inconsistent with the Customs Act, prescribing all matters which by the Customs Act are required or permitted to be prescribed, or which are necessary or convenient to be prescribed for giving effect to the Customs Act.
Purpose and background
The purpose of the Customs Amendment (International Airport Definition) Regulations 2026 (the Amendment Regulations) is to amend the Customs Regulation 2015 (the Regulation) to insert “Western Sydney International (Nancy-Bird Walton) Airport” (WSI Airport) into the definition of “international airport” in section 4 of the Regulation.
With cargo operations set to commence in July 2026, ahead of passenger flights commencing in September 2026, WSI Airport will become Australia’s fourth busiest airport when running at full capacity. It will provide essential additional capacity to meet forecast growth in international travel and trade in the Sydney basin.
Subsection 28(1) of the Customs Act provides that the regulations may prescribe the days on which, and hours on those days between which, officers are to be available to perform a specified function in every State or Territory, in a specified State or Territory or otherwise in a specified State or Territory. “Officer” in this context means “officer of Customs”, defined in section 4 of the Customs Act.
Section 12 of the Customs Regulation prescribes that, for subsection 28(1) of the Customs Act, officers are to be available to perform a function mentioned in an item in the table in subsection 12(1), in the State or Territory, on the day, and during the hours, mentioned in the item. The relevant functions are boarding or clearing aircraft, and attendance for the examination of aircraft passengers’ baggage respectively.
Including WSI Airport in the definition of “international airport” in section 4 of the Customs Regulation will therefore impose a requirement that officers of Customs be available to perform the functions and exercise the powers mentioned in items 2 and 3 of the table in subsection 12(1) at WSI Airport.
Consultation
The amendments contained in the Amendment Regulations apply in relation to officers of Customs to ensure they are available to perform specified border functions at an international airport, in this case being WSI Airport. As these apply to officers of Customs, no external consultation was undertaken.
The Australian Border Force regularly assesses the functions it provides at borders to ensure that they continue to meet the needs of the Department and are fit for purpose.
The Department of Infrastructure, Transport, Regional Development, Communications, Sport and the Arts was consulted in relation to naming conventions to ensure consistency and confirm alignment with other airport designation instruments.
Other matters
Details of the Amendment Regulations are set out in Attachment A. The Amendment Regulations commence on 1 July 2026.
The Amendment Regulations are a legislative instrument for the purposes of the Legislation Act 2003.
A Statement of Compatibility with Human Rights (the Statement) has been completed in accordance with the Human Rights (Parliamentary Scrutiny) Act 2011. The Statement concludes the Amendment Regulations are compatible with human rights. A copy of the Statement is at Attachment B.