IP Assignment and Licensing
IP rights have essentially transformed intangibles (knowledge, creativity) into valuable assets that you can put to strategic use in your business. You can do this by directly integrating the IP in the production or marketing of your products and services, thereby strengthening their competitiveness. With IP assignement and IP licensing, IP owners can also use your IP rights to create additional revenue streams by selling them out, giving others a permission to use them, and establishing joint ventures or other collaboration agreements with others who have complementary assets.
Expert tip: Assignment, license and franchising agreements are flexible documents that can be adapted to the needs of the parties. Nevertheless, most countries establish specific requirements for these agreements, e.g. written form, registration with a national IP office or other authority, etc. For more information, consult your IP office.
IP rights assignment
You can sell your IP asset to another person or legal entity.
When all the exclusive rights to a patented invention, registered trademark, design or copyrighted work are transferred by the owner to another person or legal entity, it is said that an assignment of such rights has taken place.
Assignment is the sale of an IP asset. It means that you transfer ownership of an IP asset to another person or legal entity.
IP for Business Guides
Learn more about the commercialization of patents, trademarks, industrial designs, copyright.
IP licensing
You can authorize someone else to use your IP, while maintaining your ownership, by granting a license in exchange for something of value, such as a monetary lump sum, recurrent payments (royalties), or a combination of these.
Licensing provides you with the valuable opportunity to expand into new markets, add revenue streams through royalties, develop partnerships etc.
If you own a patent, know-how, or other IP assets, but cannot or do not want to be involved in all the commercialization activities (e.g. technology development, manufacturing, market expansion, etc.) you can benefit from the licensing of your IP assets by relying on the capacity, know-how, and management expertise of your partner.
Technology licensing agreements
Trademark licensing agreements
Copyright licensing agreements
Franchising agreements
Merchande licensing
Joint venture agreements
Find out more
- Learn more about Technology Transfer.