EXPLANATORY STATEMENT
Issued by authority of the Minister for Home Affairs
Customs Act 1901
Customs (Prohibited Imports) Amendment (Sports Shooters and Other Measures) Regulations 2026
Legislative authority
The Customs Act 1901 (the Customs Act) concerns customs-related functions and is the legislative authority that sets out the customs requirements for the importation, and exportation, of goods to and from Australia.
Subsection 270(1) of the Act gives the Governor-General the power to make regulations consistent with the Act prescribing all matters, which by the Act are required or permitted to be prescribed or as may be necessary or convenient to be prescribed for giving effect to the Act.
The Customs (Prohibited Imports) Regulations 1956 (the Regulations) are made under section 270 of the Customs Act for and in relation to the matters set out in section 50 of that Act.
Schedule 6 to the Regulations sets out the requirements for the importation of firearms, firearm accessories, firearm parts, firearm magazines, ammunition, components of ammunition and imitations for the purposes of regulation 4F of the Regulations. Part 1 of Schedule 6 prescribes the tests that must be considered by the Minister before granting permission to import firearms and related items. Part 2 of Schedule 6 provides further requirements for specific firearms, firearm accessories, parts, magazines, ammunition, and imitations. Part 3 of Schedule 6 to the Regulations provides further conditions relating to the importation of firearm accessories and parts. Part 4 provides definitions for the Schedule, including that of category C and category H articles.
Regulation 4F of the Regulations prohibits the importation of a firearm, a firearm accessory, a firearm part, a firearm magazine, ammunition, or an imitation, unless the item is listed in Part 2 of Schedule 6 and the importation is in accordance with the requirements set out in column 3 of the item.
Purpose
The purpose of the Customs (Prohibited Imports) Amendment (Sports Shooters and Other Measures) Regulations 2026 (the Amendment Regulations) is to amend the Regulations to provide the Minister with a power to determine associations, bodies, events and other criteria for the purposes of importing “restricted category C” firearms for sports shooting events, and to reclassify the firearms used by biathletes to restricted category C firearms to allow their import for those events. The Amendment Regulations also enable the importation of antique handguns (handguns manufactured prior to 1 January 1900) as category H articles.
Background
The Combatting Antisemitism, Hate and Extremism (Firearms and Customs Laws) Act 2026 (CAHE Act) amended the Regulations to re‑categorise straight pull and assisted repeating action firearms as category C and D firearms imports under the Regulations. The Regulations set out various import tests in Part 1 of Schedule 6, with Part 2 explaining which tests apply to the importation of differing classes of firearms and related articles.
Items 5 and 5A of Part 1 of Schedule 6 to the Regulations provide the relevant standards for the “sports shooter test” and the “international sports shooter test” respectively. These tests allow restricted category C or category H firearms to be imported only where the Minister gives written permission, and only if the person importing the firearm qualifies as a “certified sports shooter” or “certified international sports shooter” for that article.
Item 1 and 1A of Part 4 of Schedule 6 provide the meaning of “certified sports shooter” and “certified international sports shooter.” These items impose certain conditions including membership of specified sporting bodies, licence and authorisation requirements, and limits on the kinds of events for which firearms may be imported.
Item 6 of Part 1 of Schedule 6 establishes the “dealer test”. Under this provision a licensed firearms dealer may import category C firearms subject to strict conditions governing who the imported firearm may be sold to. Where the firearm is classified as a “restricted category C article”, under item 4 of Part 3 of Schedule 6, a dealer may only sell the firearm to a “certified sports shooter” for that article.
The re-categorisation of straight pull repeating action firearms has introduced challenges for biathletes seeking to import new firearms for biathlon competitions. The sport requires athletes to ski for a distance and shoot a target utilising straight pull rimfire rifles. Following the introduction of the CAHE Act, there is no mechanism to support the importation of new straight pull firearms by biathletes, or for dealers to import them and on-sell domestically. Biathletes typically hold lower category firearm licences that are applicable to “lower” or “medium” risk firearms (category A or B licences) under the National Firearms Agreement. Without being able to import straight pull firearms and parts, Australian biathletes cannot import new firearms for domestic competitions, nor can international biathletes bring their straight pull firearms to Australia for competition.
The CAHE Act also amended the Regulations to remove the police certification test as an applicable test for handguns under Item 9 of Part 2 of Schedule 6. This resulted in the import of antique handguns being effectively impossible.
Item 3A of Part 4 of Schedule 6 defines category H articles, and explicitly excludes firearms, frames or receivers manufactured before 1 January 1900. Item 9 of Part 2 of Schedule 6 provides that the “handgun test” is applicable to a handgun and item 9B of Part 2 of Schedule 6 provides the “handgun test” is applicable to a frame or receiver of a handgun.
The “handgun test” is outlined in item 7 of Part 1 of Schedule 6 and limits the application of the test to category H articles. As firearms, frames and receivers manufactured before 1 January 1900 are explicitly excluded from the meaning of category H articles, antique handguns are not captured under the “handgun test”. This has meant there is no longer an avenue to import antique handguns into Australia.
Impact and effect
The Amendment Regulations facilitate the removal of the limitation on biathletes importing assisted repeating action or straight pull repeating action rimfire rifles either as an individual permit applicant, or through a dealer, to compete domestically or internationally, and to support organised biathlon events to be held in Australia. This is achieved through three core amendments; the inclusion of the new broad category for the definition of “certified sports shooter” and “certified international sports shooter” to incorporate the Minister specified sporting associations, bodies and events; the Ministerial legislative instrument making power to specify the relevant association and bodies, sporting events and other relevant criteria for the purposes of the new categories of “certified sports shooter” and “certified international sports shooter”; and changes to the definition of a “restricted category C article” to include assisted repeating action and straight‑pull repeating action firearms.
The Amendment Regulations establish new categories of definitions for “certified sports shooter” and “certified international sports shooter” for the importation of restricted category C articles. The category determines a person as a certified sports shooter if the Minister certifies they are satisfied of:
The new category of “certified international sports shooter” includes a person if:
The Amendment Regulations also include a legislative instrument-making power for the Minister to specify relevant sporting associations and bodies, sporting events and other relevant criteria to determine whether the requirements of the new category of “certified sports shooter” or “certified international sports shooter” respectively are met. This will allow the Minister to facilitate the importation of firearms for sports shooter events that would otherwise be prohibited or difficult to import under the Regulations.
The legislative instrument-making powers are limited to specifying one or more sporting events, one or more sporting associations or bodies, and any other criteria that may be applicable to the person seeking import. This allows the Minister to promptly and efficiently facilitate the import of articles for relevant sporting events. It also clearly defines what is required to be specified for the functioning of the categories of certified sports shooter and certified international sports shooter but provides sufficient flexibility so the Minister can specify and ensure relevant activities such as event practice or showcasing of firearms for an event can occur.
These new categories will allow athletes like biathletes, which require restricted category C firearms, that are otherwise subject to restrictive import controls, to import relevant firearms to compete in events, such as Biathlon events organised by Biathlon Australia, under the definition of “certified sports shooter” or “certified international sports shooter” tests.
The amended definition of “restricted category C article” includes assisted repeating action and straight-pull repeating action firearms, covering both shotguns and rimfire rifles. The addition of the rimfire rifle to the definition allows the firearm used by biathletes to be included under the articles to be sold to “certified sports shooters” and “certified international sports shooters”.
In addition to this change, there are a number of minor amendments to items in Part 2 of Schedule 6 to the Regulations that ensure the import conditions of assisted repeating action and straight-pull repeating action rimfire rifles and their frames, receivers and accessories are in line with the intent of the changes to include them as a “restricted category C article”.
The Amendment Regulations also remove the explicit exception of firearms, frames and receivers manufactured before 1 January 1900 from the definition of “category H articles”. The effect of this amendment is that antique handguns, manufactured prior to 1 January 1900, can be imported under the “handgun test” with written permission from the Minister and with the Minister being satisfied they are eligible importers.
The application and transitional provisions have the effect that the sports shooter amendments in Part 1 of Schedule 1 apply for any application made at or after commencement or that is yet to be decided, and applies to documents that are given at or after commencement, or before commencement where the goods are imported into Australia at or after commencement. This ensures that any items that are in the process of being imported into Australia prior to commencement of the Amendment Regulations but are yet to have a decision made on their importation, can be imported in accordance with the Regulations as amended.
Similarly, the application and transitional provisions for the “category H article” amendments have the effect that if the article is an antique handgun manufactured before 1 January 1900 and was imported after the commencement of the CAHE Act on 22 January 2026, but before the commencement of the Amendment Regulations, and is at commencement in the possession of an officer of Customs, the Amendment Regulations are taken to have applied at the time of the article’s import. This is to ensure that any articles that may have been imported in good faith and in the previously appropriate process, but have since been held by an officer of Customs by operation of the provision of the CAHE Act, and a decision has not been made on their import, can be appropriately imported if they meet the requirements of the Amended Regulations.
Consultation
The Amendment Regulations were initiated by the Department of Home Affairs. Targeted consultation on the sports shooter amendments was undertaken with Biathlon Australia and the National Rifle Association of Australia. The Shooting Industry Foundation of Australia was engaged on the category H article amendments.
Details and effect
The Amendment Regulations are a legislative instrument for the purposes of the Legislation Act 2003 (the Legislation Act).
The Amendment Regulations commence on 13 July 2026.