â¢ The National Disability Insurance Scheme Amendment (Securing the NDIS for Future Generations) Bill 2026 (the Bill) is the third tranche in the Albanese Government’s announced series of legislative amendments in response to the Royal Commission into Violence, Abuse, Neglect and Exploitation of People with Disability and the independent review of the NDIS. It also draws on the 2024 advice of the NDIS Provider and Worker Registration Taskforce, and the fi ndings of the Australian National Audit Office 2019 report into the National Disability Insurance Scheme Fraud Control Program. â¢ The Bill is primarily aimed at reducing projected growth in NDIS expenditure and participant numbers, while strengthening fraud controls, provider regulation and governance arrangements. â¢ The Bill will make several significant amendments to the operation of the NDIS, including: - introducing a power for the Minister to reduce funding for specified groups of supports - amending access and planning arrangements, including by defining functional capacity, limiting participant-requested plan reassessments, expanding the circumstances in which a person’s plan can be suspended, strengthening the link between supports and eligible impairments, changes to reasonable and necessary support provisions, and allowing consideration of access to other service systems - strengthening fraud, compliance and regulatory arrangements, including by changing the definition of NDIS provider, introducing civil penalties, expanding information-gathering powers, imposing record-keeping requirements, changing claiming timeframes and amending plan management arrangements Bills Digest | 16 June 2026 National Disability Insurance Scheme Amendment (Securing the NDIS for Future Generations) Bill 2026 Parliamentary Library Bills Digest No. 65, 2025-26 National Disability Insurance Scheme Amendment (Securing the NDIS for Future Generations) Bill 2026 Parliamentary Library | Bills Digest No. 65, 2025-26 2 - establishing a Ministerial pricing mechanism for NDIS supports and permitting automated administrative decision-making within the NDIS - facilitating implementation of new framework planning arrangements and providing for transitional arrangements. â¢ The Bill was referred to Senate Community Affairs Legislation Committee on 14 May 2026 for inquiry, with the final report due 16 June 2026 . It was reported on 4 June 2026 that the Committee had received over 4,000 submissions though not all have yet been published. â¢ The Parliamentary Joint Committee on Human Rights has raised substantial concerns with the Bill, noting that the measures in the Bill ‘would likely restrict access to the NDIS and reduce the availability of NDIS supports for participants, which, depending on the availability of alternative supports and services, could have an adverse impact on participants’ independence and quality of life and the accessibility and affordability of disability supports and services ’. (p. 7) National Disability Insurance Scheme Amendment (Securing the NDIS for Future Generations) Bill 2026 Parliamentary Library | Bills Digest No. 65, 2025-26 3

---

â¢ The purpose of the Crimes and Other Legislation Amendment (Omnibus No. 1) Bill 2026 (the Bill) is to amend crimes-related legislation to update and clarify the intended operation of key provisions (Explanatory Memorandum, p. 5). â¢ Key measures in the Bill include: - the extension of the sunset date for network activity warrants, data disruption warrants, account takeover warrants, and related emergency authorisations by 3 years (Schedule 1, Part 3) - the introduction of evidentiary certificates as prima facie evidence in proceedings for serious drug offences and the repeal of the purity-based method for determining drug threshold quantities and the enactment of the mixture-weight approach (Schedule 2, Parts 1 and 2) - the introduction of the explicit power for police officers to enter premises and use reasonable force when executing an extradition arrest warrant (Schedule 4, Part 2). â¢ The Bill was referred to the Senate Legal and Constitutional Affairs Committee for inquiry and report by 1 May 2026. The Committee’s report recommended the Bill be passed, with additional comments made by Coalition senators. â¢ The Senate Scrutiny of Bills Committee raised concerns with the Bill, relating to the deferral of sunsetting of account takeover, data disruption and network activity warrants and the introduction of evidentiary certificates as prima facie evidence in proceedings for serious drug offences . â¢ The Law Council of Australia and National Legal Aid have raised concerns with a number of elements of the Bill, including the proposed evidentiary certificate framework and the changes to the method for determining drug threshold quantities. Bills Digest | 6 May 2026 Crimes and Other Legislation Amendment (Omnibus No. 1) Bill 2026 Parliamentary Library Bills Digest No. 53, 2025-26 Crimes and Other Legislation Amendment (Omnibus No. 1) Bill 2026 Parliamentary Library | Bills Digest No. 53, 2025-26 2