Issued by authority of the Attorney-General
in compliance with section 15J of the Legislation Act 2003
Purpose and operation of the Instrument
The Administrative Review Tribunal (Consequential and Transitional Provisions No. 1) Rules 2024 (Transitional Rules) complement the transitional provisions in Schedule 16 to the Administrative Review Tribunal (Consequential and Transitional Provisions No. 1) Act 2024 (Consequential and Transitional 1 Act) to ensure a smooth transition from the former Administrative Appeals Tribunal (AAT) to the Administrative Review Tribunal (ART). The ART commenced operations on 14 October 2024.
The Transitional Rules are made under item 51 of Schedule 16 to the Consequential and Transitional 1 Act, which enables the Minister to make rules prescribing matters required or permitted by the Act to be prescribed by the rules, or necessary or convenient to be prescribed for carrying out or giving effect to the Act. The rules may prescribe matters of a transitional nature relating to amendments or repeals made by the Act or the enactment of the Administrative Review Tribunal Act 2024 (ART Act). Transitional rules may be made with retrospective effect.
The Amendment Review Tribunal (Consequential and Transitional Provisions No. 1) Amendment Rules (No. 2) 2025 (Amendment Rules) amend the Transitional Rules to provide certainty about the appropriate salary to be used as a reference point for the calculation of pensions payable under the Judges’ Pensions Act 1968 to a cohort of individuals entitled to pensions because they were non‑judicial Deputy Presidents of the AAT prior to 2005. To reflect that the AAT has been abolished and salaries are no longer set for AAT members, the Amendment Rules inserts a provision into the Transitional Rules which has the effect that the pensions are to be calculated by reference to the salaries for non-judicial Deputy Presidents of the ART, being the closest equivalent position in the ART.
Consultation
The Attorney-General’s Department consulted the Department of Finance in drafting the Rules. As the instrument is technical in nature, further consultation was not required.
Statement of Compatibility with Human Rights
Prepared in accordance with Part 3 of the Human Rights (Parliamentary Scrutiny) Act 2011
Overview of the Rules
The Amendment Review Tribunal (Consequential and Transitional Provisions No.1) Amendment Rules (No.2) 2025 (Amendment Rules) amend the Administrative Review Tribunal (Consequential and Transitional Provisions No.1) Rules 2024 (Transitional Rules) to provide certainty about the appropriate salary to be used as a reference point for the calculation of pensions payable under the Judges’ Pensions Act 1968 (Pensions Act) to a cohort of individuals entitled to pensions because they were non‑judicial Deputy Presidents of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal (AAT) prior to 2005. To reflect that the AAT was abolished on 14 October 2024 and salaries are no longer set for AAT members, the Amendment Rules inserts a provision into the Transitional Rules which has the effect that the pensions are to be calculated by reference to the salaries for non-judicial Deputy Presidents of the Administrative Review Tribunal (ART), being the closest equivalent position in the ART.
Human Rights Implications
The Rules do not engage any of the applicable rights or freedoms as they are technical in nature and provide certainty and continuity regarding the payment of certain pensions.
Conclusion
The Rules are compatible with the human rights as they do not raise any human rights issues.