Federal Court Amendment (2026 Measures no. 1) Rules 2026
EXPLANATORY STATEMENT
Federal Court Amendment (2026 Measures no. 1) Rules 2026
EXPLANATORY STATEMENT
Issued by the authority of the Judges of the Federal Court of Australia
Section 59(1) of the Federal Court of Australia Act 1976 (Cth) (‘the Act’) provides that the Judges of the Court or a majority of them may make Rules of Court, not inconsistent with the Act, making provision for or in relation to the practice and procedure to be followed in the Court (including the practice and procedure to be followed in Registries of the Court) and for or in relation to all matters and things incidental to any such practice or procedure, or necessary or convenient to be prescribed for the conduct of any business of the Court.
The Judges of the Court or a majority of them have previously made the Federal Court Rules 2011. These amending rules, the Federal Court Amendment (2026 Measures No.1) Rules 2026 (‘the amendments’), have now been made by a majority of the Judges of the Court to amend those Rules.
Subsection 59(4) of the Act provides that the Legislation Act 2003 (Cth) (other than sections 8, 9, 10, 16 and Part 4 of Chapter 3) applies to rules of court. In this application, a reference to a legislative instrument in the Legislation Act 2003 (Cth) is to be read as a reference to a rule of court and a reference to a rule-maker as a reference to the Chief Justice acting on behalf of the Judges of the Court, subject to such further modification or adaptations as are provided for in regulations made under section 59A of the Act.
The Court holds the view that a statement of compatibility with human rights is not required to be included in an explanatory statement to rules of court, as whilst the Act applies the Legislation Act 2003 (Cth) to rules of court, it does not expressly translate a reference to a legislative instrument in legislation other than the Legislation Act 2003 (Cth) into a reference to rules of court, such as in the Human Rights (Parliamentary Scrutiny) Act 2011 (Cth).
The Court notes that different views are held as to whether a statement of compatibility with human rights is formally required to be included in an explanatory statement to rules of court. However, for the avoidance of doubt, a statement of compatibility with human rights is included below.
The amendments are exempt from sunsetting under paragraph 8(8)(d) of the Legislation Act 2003 (Cth).
Statement of Compatibility with Human Rights
Federal Court Amendment (2026 Measures No.1) Rules 2026
This legislative instrument is compatible with the human rights and freedoms recognised or declared in the international instruments listed in section 3 of the Human Rights (Parliamentary Scrutiny) Act 2011 (Cth).
Human rights implications
This legislative instrument engages the following applicable human rights or freedoms:
These amendments aid in achieving the right to a fair and timely hearing in several ways. The amendments regulate applications for leave to institute proceedings by litigants in person where there is a direction that an application is not filed without the Court’s leave. They make express provision for livestreaming of proceedings and replace the definition of “recording device” with “recording tool”. The amendments harmonise the requirements for appeals from the Administrative Review Tribunal in relation to the filing of appeal books and other materials. They update the Rules to reflect the provisions of the Administrative Review Tribunal Act 2024 (Cth) and increase the monetary amounts for costs specified in Schedule 3.
Otherwise, as these amendments are minor and generally procedural only, they do not have any significant effect on human rights or freedoms.
Conclusion
This legislative instrument is therefore compatible with human rights as it does not raise any human rights issues.