The Agreement Establishing the ASEAN-Australia-New Zealand Free Trade Area (AANZFTA) is an agreement between ASEAN Member States (Brunei Darussalam, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam), Australia and New Zealand. It delivers extensive tariff reduction and greater certainty for services suppliers and investors. The Agreement remains the highest quality of ASEAN's FTAs with its partners. AANZFTA entered into force in January 2010 for Australia.
The Second Protocol to Amend the Agreement Establishing the AANZFTA (known as the AANZFTA Upgrade) entered into force on 21 April 2025. It improves processes for traders to access the AANZFTA’s existing tariff preferences, and provides new market access commitments and regulatory certainty for service providers. The Upgrade introduces three new chapters to the Agreement: Micro-Small-and-Medium Enterprises, Government Procurement, and Trade and Sustainable Development (a first for ASEAN FTA commitments).
On 21 August 2023, then Assistant Foreign Minister Tim Watts with ASEAN and New Zealand Ministers signed the Second Protocol to Amend the AANZFTA agreement, in the margins of the 28th ASEAN Economic Ministers’-Closer Economic Relations consultations in Semarang, Indonesia. See the Minister for Trade and Tourism, Senator the Hon Don Farrell’s media release - Deepening economic ties with our ASEAN partners. For more information on the upgrade see AANZFTA - Benefits for Australia.
On 13 November 2022, Prime Minister Anthony Albanese joined ASEAN and New Zealand counterparts to announce the substantial conclusion of negotiations to upgrade the ASEAN-Australia-New Zealand Free Trade Agreement (AANZFTA) in Phnom Penh, Cambodia. Further information is available at substantial conclusion of negotiations to upgrade AANZFTA [PDF].
As part of the Australian Government's commitment to keep its FTAs up-to-date and relevant for business, AANZFTA was updated in 2015 via the 'First Protocol to Amend the AANZFTA', which streamlined the certification processes for the movement of goods throughout AANZFTA countries. The First Protocol is in force for all AANZFTA Parties. For more information see For Business.
In September 2018, AANZFTA Ministers endorsed officials’ recommendations from the AANZFTA General Review to guide negotiations to upgrade the Agreement. For more information please see General Review of the ASEAN-Australia-New Zealand FTA. The stakeholder submissions received by the Australian Government are available at AANZFTA Upgrade Submissions.
As of 1 January 2019, Australia began implementation of HS 2017 Product Specific Rules nomenclature. For more information see the FTA Portal or refer to the HS 2017 PSR Schedule on the Official AANZFTA Documents page.
AANZFTA is complemented by our bilateral FTAs with Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore, Thailand, and New Zealand. Australia, Brunei Darussalam, Malaysia, New Zealand, Singapore and Vietnam are also signatories of the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership (CPTPP), which entered into force for Australia, New Zealand and Singapore on 30 December 2018; for Vietnam on 14 January 2019. Australia, Brunei Darussalam, Cambodia, Laos, Malaysia, New Zealand, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam have ratified the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) Agreement, an ASEAN-led FTA, which entered into force on 1 January 2022.
AANZFTA website
Please see the ASEAN Secretariat's AANZFTA website for further information.