â¢ The Treasury Laws Amendment (Financial Reporting System Reform) Bill 2026 (the Bill) proposes to amend the Australian Securities and Investments Commission Act 2001 to merge the Financial Reporting Council, the Australian Accounting Standards Board and the Auditing and Assurance Standards Board into a new body, named External Reporting Australia, with responsibility for performing core financial reporting and sustainability standard-setting functions. â¢ The proposal was announced by the Treasurer in November 2023, after having been raised in a consultation paper in December 2022. â¢ In January 2025 Treasury released a consultation paper seeking feedback on the design of the new standard setting body. Treasury received 33 stakeholder submissions. â¢ In October 2025 Treasury released an exposure draft of the legislation and undertook public consultation. Stakeholder submissions broadly supported the draft bill although a number included recommendations to enhance the reform design. â¢ External Reporting Australia will have a Governing Council, appointed by the Minister. To be eligible for appointment, a person must have experience in, or knowledge of, at least one of a number of fields listed in the Bill, including law , business, financial markets, accounting, auditing, science and sustainability or climate change. The Minister will also be able to appoint non-voting associate members of the Governing Council. These members will need to meet the same eligibility requirements as Council members. â¢ The Governing Council will be empowered to create standard-setting boards by disallowable legislative instrument, appoint members to the boards and will have a limited role in standard setting. Some stakeholders have raised concerns about the Council’s involvement in standard setting. Submissions on the exposure draft also Bills Digest | 7 April 2026 Treasury Laws Amendment (Financial Reporting System Reform) Bill 2026 Parliamentary Library Bills Digest No. 47, 2025-26 Treasury Laws Amendment (Financial Reporting System Reform) Bill 2026 Parliamentary Library | Bills Digest No. 47, 2025-26 2 included recommendations that standard-setting boards should have a clear and explicit mandate for active participation in international standard-setting processes. â¢ The Bill has been referred to the Senate Economics Legislation Committee for inquiry and report by 24 April 2026. At the time of writing the Committee had received and published 12 submissions. â¢ The Senate Standing Committee for the Scrutiny of Bills has commented on certain provisions in the Bill questioning whether there is appropriate parliamentary scrutiny in the making of certain standards. Treasury Laws Amendment (Financial Reporting System Reform) Bill 2026 Parliamentary Library | Bills Digest No. 47, 2025-26 3