Amazon Brand Registry
Launch your brand with Amazon
Enroll your brand in Amazon Brand Registry to start unlocking a suite of brand-building tools and protection benefits.
Get 10% back on branded sales
Enroll your brand in Amazon Brand Registry to get:
10% back on your first $50,000 in branded sales, then 5% back through your first year until you reach $1,000,000
$200 credit for Amazon Vine
Why Amazon Brand Registry?
Amazon Brand Registry is a free program that helps you protect and grow your brand, even if you don’t sell in the Amazon store.
Secure your brand
Detect and report suspected IP infringement with our powerful tools. Accurate submissions drive our feedback loops to block violations automatically—before they impact your brand or customers.
Convert more customers
Use brand-exclusive services to add enhanced content to your product detail pages and kickstart customer reviews, helping customers make informed purchasing decisions. You’ll also gain access to brand-marketing tools and options to offer shoppers the savings they love.
Measure your success
Use key metrics to understand how customers search for your brand and purchase your products. You can also track protection metrics—both Amazon’s efforts and yours—in real-time across all our stores.
“Amazon Brand Registry has been a huge leap forward for Casio in protecting our intellectual property. The response time has been lightning fast and the team assigned to this program are incredibly knowledgeable and efficient."
“P&G was very pleased to be invited to be an early adopter of Amazon Brand Registry. We believe that Amazon Brand Registry will continue to help as we collaborate with Amazon to protect our brands and our consumers online.”
Join our growing list of enrolled brands
Enroll your brand with Amazon
To enroll your brand in Amazon Brand Registry and start unlocking exclusive benefits, you need to meet two basic requirements:
Brand name and logo: Have a logo that includes your brand name permanently affixed to your products or packaging.
Trademark: Have a pending or registered trademark for your brand name or logo that’s issued by the designated government trademark office of a country with a corresponding Amazon store.
AI-powered brand name generator
Save time and accelerate launch by creating a strong brand name before you enroll it permanently with Brand Registry. Our AI-powered tool can generate tailored brand name recommendations that are optimized for Amazon success and help customers connect with your brand.
IP Accelerator
If you don’t have a trademark for your brand name or logo, our IP Accelerator program can connect you with Amazon-vetted legal service providers. Get competitive rates, trademark your brand name and logo, and enroll faster in Brand Registry.
Protect and grow your brand with Amazon
After enrolling your brand in Amazon Brand Registry, you can start activating a suite of protection benefits and exclusive tools that can help grow awareness, improve consideration, increase conversion, and build loyalty for your brand.
You’ll unlock services to help you:
You’ll unlock services to help you:
Optimize listings and kickstart reviews
A+ Content
Improve your listings with videos, enhanced images, product-comparison charts, and more.
Basic A+ Content can increase sales by up to 8%—and well-implemented Premium A+ Content can increase sales by up to 20%.1
Amazon Vine
Build trust by generating high-quality product reviews from Amazon’s trusted network of Vine Voices.
Customer Reviews
Uncover insights and improve your products by tracking reviews and responding to customer concerns.
Did you know?
Amazon Brand Registry can help increase the accuracy of product listings
Amazon Brand Registry puts additional protections in place to help safeguard your brand’s product information. That can mean more accurate listings and an improved customer experience.
Delight customers with great deals
Subscribe & Save products with a 10%-15% discount can drive up to a 1.8x increase in conversion on average.1
Brand Tailored Promotions
Encourage sales by creating exclusive discounts tailored to recent, repeat, or high-spend customers, plus other audiences.
Virtual Bundles
Group and sell multiple products in one listing to make it easier for customers to buy more from your brand.
Access exclusive advertising opportunities
Brand Stores
Differentiate your brand by designing your own free storefront—no coding experience required.
Shoppers who visit a Store during their shopping journey purchase 53.9% more frequently, and have a 71.3% higher average order value compared to those who do not visit a Store.2
Sponsored Brands
Drive discovery with cost-per-click ad campaigns featuring multiple products from your brand.
Sponsored Display
Showcase your products with cost-per-click ads optimized by machine learning for display across and beyond Amazon.
Amazon Live
Develop livestreams and real-time shopping experiences in partnership with relevant talent.
Make data-driven business decisions
Manage Your Experiments
Test and optimize content for your product listings to drive more clicks, cart adds, and sales.
Knowing what content drives conversion and implementing changes to your listings based on optimized content can increase sales by up to 25%.1
Brand Analytics
Analyze trends in customers' searches, purchases, and more to inform your selling strategy.
Amazon Attribution
Measure and optimize the impact of your non-Amazon marketing on your Amazon sales.
Brand Referral Bonus
Earn credits from your non-Amazon marketing efforts while improving your advertising return.
Protect your brand
Transparency
Use unique serial codes to stop counterfeits and improve customer engagement with authenticated items.
Over 2.5 billion product units have been verified as genuine through Amazon's Transparency program.3
Report a Violation
Detect and report suspected IP infringement. Each report helps strengthen our automated protections.
Project Zero
Drive counterfeits to zero with the ability to block and remove listings immediately.
Counterfeit Crimes Unit
Work with law enforcement and our global team to stop bad actors and hold them accountable.
Brand Protection Report
Read about our latest innovations in helping prevent counterfeit products from reaching customers.
Did you know?
We can help with patent disputes
After enrolling in Brand Registry, you can access a faster and less expensive way to handle patent disputes. We use neutral third-party evaluators to determine whether a utility patent has been infringed. The decision will be enforced in our US store.
Frequently Asked Questions
Don’t see your question below? See our other Brand Registry FAQs (login required).
What are the full requirements for enrolling a brand in Brand Registry?
To enroll in Brand Registry:
- You must have a logo that includes your brand name permanently affixed to your products or packaging. During enrollment, you will need to provide a standalone image of your logo, as well as an image that shows your logo on your products or packaging.
- You must have an active, registered trademark or a pending trademark application for your brand name or logo that’s issued by the designated government trademark office of a country with a corresponding Amazon store. In some cases, you may also enroll with a pending trademark registration. See country-specific requirements (login required).
- You must be the trademark owner. If you are an authorized agent, have the trademark owner enroll the brand, then add you as an additional Brand Registry account user.
- The trademark for your brand must be in the form of a text-based mark (word mark) or an image-based mark with words, letters, or numbers (design mark). Note that trademarks can have different classifications based on their issuing trademark office.
- Your trademark text must match the brand name on your Brand Registry application. If your trademark is an image-based mark with words, letters, or numbers, you will need to upload a copy of the image during enrollment. It should match your trademark record exactly.
- You must have the trademark registration or application number provided by the designated government office.
- You must have a list of product categories in which your brand should be listed.
- If you have a Seller Central or Vendor Central account, use the same username and password to create your Brand Registry account.
Do I need to create multiple Brand Registry accounts if I sell in more than one country?
No. You can create a single, global account with Brand Registry. During enrollment, you’ll only be able to select a single country-based trademark office. But you’ll be able add trademarks for the offices of other countries after your enrollment has been approved. We recommend submitting trademarks for each country-based Amazon store you want to sell in.
Can I enroll more than one brand?
Yes. After enrolling your first brand, you can enroll additional brands from your Brand Registry homepage by clicking Enroll a new brand.
I’m trying to enroll in Amazon Brand Registry. Why am I receiving an error message?
See our list of error messages, explanations, and next steps (login required).
How do I view or edit my Brand Registry application?
To view the status of an application, visit the Brand Applications page. You can also edit an application that you haven’t yet submitted, add documents to a submitted application, or copy and correct a rejected application.
Can I provide others with access to the Brand Registry portal?
Yes. After enrolling your brand in Brand Registry, you can invite additional users to your brand and assign them roles.
Can I add a new trademark for a brand I’ve already enrolled?
Yes. Follow these steps:
- Click Manage in the Brand Registry main menu, then click Manage intellectual property.
- Select the brand name from the drop-down menu, then click Connect a trademark.
- For a single trademark, enter the required trademark information, then click Connect trademark.
- For 10 or more trademarks, click Connect multiple trademarks, download the template, enter the required information, then upload your completed template.
Can Brand Registry help with utility patent disputes?
Yes. For US brands with a utility patent, Brand Registry offers a neutral evaluation process within the Report a Violation tool. The Amazon Patent Evaluation Express program brings in neutral third-party evaluators who are attorneys skilled in patent analysis, to decide whether an asserted utility patent is infringed.
The process is an efficient means for utility patent owners and those accused of patent infringement to address their concerns. It is faster than the court system and is free for the party that the evaluator determines is correct.
Once a report is submitted, we notify sellers who have listings for reported products so they can participate in an evaluation and defend their claim if they choose.
Participation in an evaluation requires both parties to deposit $4,000 with the neutral evaluator. Amazon does not handle the deposit and does not retain any portion of the evaluator’s fee. The evaluator reviews submissions and determines whether the reported listings infringe the patent.
Amazon follows the decision of the evaluator. The winning participant receives their $4,000 deposit back. If the evaluator determines the reported products infringe, Amazon removes them. If the evaluator finds in the seller’s favor, Amazon takes no action.
Once an evaluation is complete, if an application meets the criteria, utility patent owners are granted an Amazon Patent Evaluation Express ID associated with this decision. Brands can use the ID from the winning evaluation to report future infringement of that patent through Report a Violation.
The process is an efficient means for utility patent owners and those accused of patent infringement to address their concerns. It is faster than the court system and is free for the party that the evaluator determines is correct.
Once a report is submitted, we notify sellers who have listings for reported products so they can participate in an evaluation and defend their claim if they choose.
Participation in an evaluation requires both parties to deposit $4,000 with the neutral evaluator. Amazon does not handle the deposit and does not retain any portion of the evaluator’s fee. The evaluator reviews submissions and determines whether the reported listings infringe the patent.
Amazon follows the decision of the evaluator. The winning participant receives their $4,000 deposit back. If the evaluator determines the reported products infringe, Amazon removes them. If the evaluator finds in the seller’s favor, Amazon takes no action.
Once an evaluation is complete, if an application meets the criteria, utility patent owners are granted an Amazon Patent Evaluation Express ID associated with this decision. Brands can use the ID from the winning evaluation to report future infringement of that patent through Report a Violation.
What are Amazon’s policies on intellectual property and brand names?
How can I report policy violations or other forms of abuse not related to intellectual property?
You can use the Report abuse tool to report inaccurate listing information, violations of Amazon policy, and other issues. To access the tool, log in to Seller Central and use the main menu to select Performance, then Account Health. On the Account Health page, select Report abuse. If you don't have access to Seller Central, you can report issues using Brand Registry Support. Log in to your Brand Registry account and select Contact us from your homepage, then select Report a marketplace policy violation.
Amazon also provides a publicly available form for reporting alleged intellectual property infringements such as copyright, trademark, and patent concerns.
Amazon also provides a publicly available form for reporting alleged intellectual property infringements such as copyright, trademark, and patent concerns.
The current Administrator has left the company or is no longer associated with the brand. How can I update the Administrator?
If there are no active Administrators for the brand, there are two ways to request access to the brand:
Option 1: If you have at least one other brand that is already enrolled in Brand Registry and you can access the Brand Registry portal, you can submit your request via Brand Registry Support. Select Update brand ownership as the topic. Your request will be reviewed, and you'll receive a response accordingly.
Option 2: You can attempt to apply for Brand Registry with the same trademark number as a currently enrolled brand. Once you enter the already registered trademark number, a warning will appear, offering a link to a form for sharing your contact information. Select the link to access the Share Contact Information form. At the bottom of the form, there’s a link available only for eligible users, leading to an Appeal Submission form. If your appeal succeeds, you'll be added to the brand with the Administrator and Rights Owner roles.
Option 1: If you have at least one other brand that is already enrolled in Brand Registry and you can access the Brand Registry portal, you can submit your request via Brand Registry Support. Select Update brand ownership as the topic. Your request will be reviewed, and you'll receive a response accordingly.
Option 2: You can attempt to apply for Brand Registry with the same trademark number as a currently enrolled brand. Once you enter the already registered trademark number, a warning will appear, offering a link to a form for sharing your contact information. Select the link to access the Share Contact Information form. At the bottom of the form, there’s a link available only for eligible users, leading to an Appeal Submission form. If your appeal succeeds, you'll be added to the brand with the Administrator and Rights Owner roles.
Launch your brand with Amazon
Enroll your brand in Amazon Brand Registry to start unlocking a suite of brand-building tools and protection benefits.
1Amazon internal data
2Amazon internal data, August 2024
32024 Amazon Brand Protection Report
2Amazon internal data, August 2024
32024 Amazon Brand Protection Report