â¢ The Family Law Amendment Bill 2024 (the Bill) will amend 6 Commonwealth Acts, with the majority of amendments being to the Family Law Act 1975, with a focus on improving consideration of domestic and family violence in property disputes. â¢ Schedule 1 of the Bill includes consideration of family violence in property settlement proceedings in three ways, by: - including ‘economic or financial abuse’ as a behaviour that may constitute family violence - explicitly including family violence as a factor which can impact a person’s ability to make financial and non -financial contributions and - recognising the impact which family violence has, or could have, on current and future circumstances of the parties. â¢ The Bill contains provisions clarifying how family pets are considered in family law. â¢ Schedule 2 of the Bill seeks to comprehensively regulate Children’s Contact Services, requiring accreditation for persons and entities who provide services to children. New civil penalty and strict liability offences are proposed for accreditation non-compliance. â¢ Schedule 3 proposes a range of case management and procedural amendments, including clarifying the type of information that can be required through Commonwealth Information Orders, and preventing disclosure of sensitive medical or other material. â¢ Schedule 4 contains amendments to costs orders and other general matters. â¢ In late 2023, the Attorney-General’s Department released an Exposure Draft of the Bill for public consultation. The Department received 86 responses from key stakeholders, which were generally welcoming of the proposed amendments. Bills Digest | 9 September 2024 Family Law Amendment Bill 2024 Josh Gibson Bills Digest No. 13, 2024-25 Family Law Amendment Bill 2024 Parliamentary Library | Bills Digest No. 13, 2024-25 2 â¢ The amendments would implement a range of recommendations, primarily proposed by the House of Representatives Committee on Social Policy and Legal Affairs Inquiry 2017 Report A better family law system to support and protect those affected by family violence , the Australian Law Reform Commission’s 2019 Report Family law for the future - An inquiry into the family law system, and the Joint Select Committee on Australia’s Family Law System 2021 Final report (and Interim Reports). â¢ At the time of publication, the Bill has not been referred to any committees or considered by any of the parliamentary scrutiny committees. Family Law Amendment Bill 2024 Parliamentary Library | Bills Digest No. 13, 2024-25 3