Administrative Review Tribunal amendment (2026 MEASURES NO. 1) RULES 2026
EXPLANATORY STATEMENT 
Issued by authority of the Attorney-General 
in compliance with section 15J of the Legislation Act 2003 
Purpose and operation of the Instrument
The Administrative Review Tribunal Amendment (2026 Measures No. 1) Rules 2026 (Amendment Rules) amend provisions in the Administrative Review Tribunal Rules 2024 (ART Rules) to ensure the Administrative Review Tribunal (ART) operates as efficiently as possible, and to allow the effective implementation of the new ‘on the papers’ review process contained in Division 4A of Part 5 of the Migration Act 1958 (Migration Act), as amended by Administrative Review Tribunal and Other Legislation Amendment Act 2026 (ARTOLAA). The Amendment Rules also ensure the ART’s application fee waiver settings remain appropriate and ensure a consistent approach to imposing fees for service providers applying to the ART for review of regulatory decisions. 
Under section 295 of the Administrative Review Tribunal Act 2024 (ART Act), the Minister may make rules prescribing matters that are required or permitted to be prescribed by the rules, or necessary or convenient for carrying out or giving effect to the ART Act. 
The purpose of the Amendment Rules is to: 
- enable the President of the ART to authorise registrars and staff members of the ART to exercise or perform ART powers or functions contained in Division 4A of Part 5 of the Migration Act as amended by the ARTOLAA, enhancing the ART’s ability to efficiently progress matters through the new ‘on the papers’ review process for applications for review of reviewable migration decisions relating to temporary visa decisions prescribed by the Migration Regulations 1994 , and 
- enable the ART to impose application fees in relation to regulatory decisions made by the NDIS Quality and Safeguards Commissioner (NDIS Commissioner) regarding National Disability Insurance Scheme (NDIS) providers, including disqualified providers.
Authorisation powers for registrars and staff members of the ART
Paragraphs 284(1)(b), 285(1)(b) and 286(b) of the ART Act allow the ART Rules to prescribe functions and powers that the President may authorise members, registrars and staff members to perform. Once the matter is constituted, the ART will generally have control over how and by who within the ART a proceeding is conducted, but there are circumstances where it is appropriate to utilise other members, registrars or staff members to resolve a matter as efficiently as possible. 
Authorisations under the ART Act are structured so that the functions and powers that a person can perform or exercise increase in accordance with the person’s level of seniority:
- functions and powers that require a greater degree of analysis and significant exercise of discretion should only be performed or exercised by members
- functions and powers which have a degree of complexity that require the exercise of some discretion can generally be authorised to registrars to perform or exercise 
- functions and powers that do not require an exercise of discretion, or are administrative in nature, are appropriate for staff members of the ART to perform or exercise.
The Amendment Rules amend the ART Rules to include additional functions and powers which the President may authorise registrars and staff members to perform or exercise under the Migration Act. These amendments support the ART in providing an independent mechanism of administrative review that ensures applications to the ART are resolved quickly, and with as little formality, as a proper consideration of the matters before the ART permit.
Imposition of Fees for NDIS Providers
The Amendment Rules amend the ART Rules to impose application fees for reviews of decisions made by the NDIS Commissioner in relation to reviewable decisions pursuant to subsection 99(1) of the National Disability Insurance Act 2013 (NDIS Act) involving NDIS providers. These amendments will enable the ART to distinguish between NDIS providers facing regulatory action and NDIS participants when imposing fees. Removing the benefit of fee waiver provisions for NDIS providers facing regulatory action is in line with the approach of not allowing service providers in other industries (for example financial advisers) to benefit from fee waiver provisions. 
Consultation
Subsection 295(6) of the ART Act provides that, before making rules affecting the practice, procedure or operations of the ART, the Minister must consult the President of the ART. The Attorney-General satisfied this requirement by consulting on the draft Amendment Rules with the President on 28 April 2026.
During the development of the draft Amendment Rules, the department also consulted with the ART, the Department of Home Affairs, the National Disability Insurance Agency and the NDIS Quality and Safeguards Commission. 
Statement of Compatibility with Human Rights
Prepared in accordance with Part 3 of the Human Rights (Parliamentary Scrutiny) Act 2011
The Administrative Review Tribunal Amendment (2026 Measures No. 1) Rules 2026 (Amendment Rules) are compatible with the human rights and freedoms recognised or declared in the international instruments listed in section 3 of the Human Rights (Parliamentary Scrutiny) Act 2011. 
Overview of the legislative instrument
The Amendment Rules amend the Administrative Review Tribunal Rule 2024 (ART Rules) to include additional functions and powers which the President of the Administrative Review Tribunal (ART) may authorise registrars and staff members to perform or exercise under the Migration Act 1958 (Migration Act) as amended by the Administrative Review Tribunal and Other Legislation Amendment Act 2026 (ARTOLAA). 
These amendments enable registrars and staff members of the ART to exercise new administrative and procedural powers of the ART contained in Division 4A of Part 5 of the Migration Act to support the efficient operation of the ‘on the papers’ process. Under Division 4A of Part 5, the ART must review decisions that relate to temporary visas of a kind prescribed in regulations entirely on the basis of written materials, without conducting an oral hearing. The functions or powers authorised by the Amendment Rules support a procedural process to allow applicants to have their matter considered by the ART, and support the efficient operation of the ART. The functions or powers being authorised by the Amendment Rules are largely routine in nature, do not involve the exercise of significant discretion or substantive decision-making, and can be adequately performed by the authorised registrar or staff member. 
Section 30 of the ART Rules provides for decisions for which an application fee for a review of the decision is not payable. The Amendment Rules will remove exemptions from the payment of fees for reviews of regulatory decisions made by the NDIS Quality and Safeguards Commissioner (NDIS Commissioner) in relation to reviewable decisions pursuant to subsection 99(1) of the National Disability Insurance Act 2013 (NDIS Act) involving National Disability Insurance Scheme (NDIS) providers, including disqualified providers. These amendments will enable the ART to distinguish between NDIS providers facing regulatory action and NDIS participants when imposing fees. 
Human Rights Implications
The Amendment Rules engage the following rights:
- the right to an effective remedy and the right to a fair and public hearing in Article 2(3) and Article 14 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR).
The right to an effective remedy and the right to a fair hearing in Articles 2(3) and 14 of the ICCPR 
Article 2(3) of the ICCPR provides that States shall undertake to ensure the right to an effective remedy for any violation of rights or freedoms recognised by ICCPR. It includes the right to have a remedy determined by competent judicial, administrative or legislative authorities. This right also encompasses the duty to ensure competent authorities enforce any such remedies when granted. 
Article 14(1) of the ICCPR provides that everyone is entitled to a ‘fair and public hearing by a competent, independent and impartial tribunal established by law’. 
The Amendment Rules promote these rights by supporting the procedural framework for reviews in the ART, enabling better access to effective remedies.
The ART Rules provide for the payment of an application fee for review of a decision in certain circumstances. Requiring the payment of fees is a limitation on a person's right to a fair hearing that is reasonable, necessary and proportionate in the circumstances. The ART Rules also identify circumstances in which a reduced fee, or no fee at all, is payable. The Amendment Rules provide for additional decisions for which a fee is payable to the Tribunal. However, these fees are a legitimate objective to reflect the cost of the service provided by the ART, reflects standard practice for similar bodies, and is subject to exceptions to promote access to justice. For example, the ART Rules provide for a fee reduction if an applicant meets certain criteria, which may include where the applicant is experiencing financial hardship.
Conclusion
The Amendment Rules are compatible with human rights and freedoms because they promote the protection of human rights by advancing the right to an effective remedy, and a fair hearing. To the extent that measures in the Amendment Rules limit those rights and freedoms, such limitations are reasonable, necessary and proportionate.