EXPLANATORY STATEMENT
Issued by the Authority of the Minister for Industry and Innovation
Trade Marks Act 1995
Trade Marks Amendment (International Registrations, Hearings and Oppositions) Regulations 2025
The Trade Marks Amendment (International Registrations, Hearings and Oppositions) Regulations 2025 (the Regulations) amend the Trade Marks Regulations 1995 (Trade Marks Regulations) to ensure Australia complies with international obligations and make minor improvements and simplifications to trade mark processes.
Legislative Authority
Paragraph 231(1)(a) of the Trade Marks Act 1995 (the Act) provides that the Governor-General may make regulations prescribing matters required or permitted by the Act to be prescribed.
Changes to regulations in Part 17A of the Trade Marks Regulations derive their authority from subsection 189A(1) of the Act, which allows regulations to provide for matters necessary to enable the performance of obligations under the Madrid Protocol. The Protocol Relating to the Madrid Agreement concerning the International Registration of Marks (referred to in the Act as the Madrid Protocol) is an international agreement which provides for a system of international trade mark registrations. The Madrid Protocol leaves several matters to be resolved within the domestic law of each party, including identifying the circumstances in which applications will and will not be approved. The amendments in Schedule 3 to the Regulations are thus incidental to the implementations of Australia’s obligations under the Madrid Protocol.
The Act specifies no conditions that must be met before the power to make regulations may be exercised.
The Regulations are a legislative instrument for the purposes of the Legislation Act 2003 (Legislation Act).
Purpose of the Regulations
The Regulations amend the Trade Marks Regulations to make minor updates and improvements which maintain consistency with international requirements and simplify some dispute processes. This includes updating Australia’s trade marks system to reflect changes to the international Madrid Regulations, which are the Regulations under the Madrid Protocol. The changes contribute to Government efforts to bolster productivity growth through regulatory simplification. By streamlining government processes we can reduce burdens on businesses.
The Regulations amend the Trade Marks Regulations to: