WIPO IP Diagnostics
WIPO IP Diagnostics is a free, intellectual property (IP) self-assessment tool that helps businesses identify their IP assets.
After you complete a section, a report that gives you recommendations and further information on IP and business competitiveness will be generated.
The IP assessment is in the form of two-levelquestionnaires. The first one is a “pre-assessment” which consists of ten questions about your company. The answers to these questions reveal the areas of relevance to the business and leads to a second-level assessment consisting of ten sections.
The system invites the user to respond to the more detailed questions in the different sections automatically generated based on the responses to the pre-assessment.
Reports are automatically generated by the system depending on the responses provided to the questions in the different sections of the second assessment, as well as to some of the questions in the pre-assessment.
Reports are indicated as ready to be downloaded by a green check mark.
The reports identify the IP issues that may be relevant to the business and offers useful information for managing those rights. The reports may be useful as a preliminary IP audit and constitute a useful basis for determining the IP strategy for the business.
If you are an institution that assists SMEs and other types of businesses we encourage you to share the WIPO IP Diagnostics on your website to facilitate access to the tool for your clients. Simply go to WIPO IP Diagnostics Pre-Assessment page (by clicking on Start WIPO IP Diagnostics or one of the links below), select your preferred language in the top right corner of the page and copy the link in the web address field. This link could be posted on your website for public use.
Video: Helping Your Businesses Identify and Grow with IP with the IP Diagnostic Tool
Translations and adaptations
WIPO IP Diagnostics has been translated and/or adapted to the local context in collaboration with a number of national intellectual property offices and regional organizations.
National translations
Portuguese (Portugal)
Thai (Thailand)
Romanian (Republic of Moldova)
Vietnamese (Viet Nam)
Khmer (Cambodia)
Bahasa (Indonesia)
Sri Lanka (Sinhala)
National and regional adaptations
OAPI (French)
India (English)
Estonia (Estonian)
Hungary (Hungarian)
Lithuania (Lithuanian)
Egypt (English)
Egypt (Arabic)
India (Hindi)
India (Bengali)
India (Urdu)
India (Tamil)
India (Marathi)
India (Telugu)
India (Punjabi)
India (Gujarati)
India (Malayalam)
India (Odia)
Slovenia (Slovenian)
Trinidad and Tobago (English)
Russian Federation (Russian)
Republic of Macedonia (Macedonian)
Industry-specific adaptations
Events
WIPO IP Diagnostics was launched at an event organized by WIPO in collaboration with the International Trade Center and the International Chamber of Commerce at WIPO IP Diagnostics Going Global event held on November 9, 2021.
Partners
WIPO ICC Joint initiative
The International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) is the institutional representative of more than 45 million companies in over 100 countries. ICC’s core mission is to make business work for everyone, every day, everywhere. ICC’s members include many of the world’s leading companies, SMEs, business associations and local chambers of commerce.
In addition to ICC’s participation and support in the launching of WIPO IP Diagnostics, through this joint initiative WIPO and the ICC Centre of Entrepreneurship (CoE) are partnering to help entrepreneurs navigate IP regulation and better manage their intangible assets. The tool will be deployed at CoE, promoted among ICC members, and integrated into training sessions and workshops to be provided through the CoE and fine tuned to better help entrepreneurs.